---
layout: post
title: 'Focus'
date: 2016-01-13 08:00:00
---

We have 24 hours in a day. Everything we'd like to accomplish is constrained within 24 hours. This includes day-to-day activities like doing chores, going to work, and spending time with family and friends. We also have to consider the overhead planning for finances, meals, etc. Additionally, we like to workout, read, work on our hobbies. 

What ends up happening to me is I start a lot of cool things, but I stretch myself thin. I barely have time to be lazy! I'm speaking from the perspective of a married man with no kids, so I should have a ton of free time, right? The free time I have is valuable to me, so I should really only focus on things that are really important to me rather than fumble with the fluff.

I like to improve on the things I have in my life. But if I worked to improve every aspect, I wouldn't be gaining that much because constant switching takes time too. I need to pick the things I'm working on in a given day/week/month and squash everything else. I guess the idea is kind of like agile project management. Take little 2 week sprints and focus on the results of the scope of the sprint.

I have a pretty great job, and I'd like to get better at it. Improvement comes in many forms, and the experience I'll gain as a software developer at work will yield large gains. Also, there are tangible things I can do to drive me forward. I can read books, work on personal projects, and teach someone else how to write computer code.

My software development goals reflect just that. In 2016 I intend to read at least 2 software engineering related books, have a working prototype of a software-related project, and teach at least 1 person the basics of writing computer code. Another thing I'd like to work towards is completing the first 50 problems of [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/). Maybe I'll even write about it.

